---
layout: syllabus
title: Syllabus
course:
  term: Spring 2025
  number: ENGL 303
  title: "Approaches to English Studies"
  subtitle: "Unreliable Narrators"
  description: |
    A writing intensive exploration of the methodologies and major topics of English studies.

    In this section of ENGL 303, we will consider the history of the "unreliable narrator": that is, texts which are narrated by people who are not, we eventually learn, telling us strictly the truth. Particular attention will be paid to the relationship between this figure and fiction about crime. We will also use these questions to explore underlying assumptions about fiction itself, especially as these questions matter for the English major.
  outcomes:
    - Develop well-written arguments based in close reading
    - Write clearly, cohesively, and critically in academic genres
    - Revise written work based on feedback and provide feedback to others
    - Understand the workings of the English major at Texas A&M
    - Articulate a plan for completing the degree
  meetings:
    - location: LAAH 465
      time: TR 9:35-10:50
  instructors:
    - name: Andrew Pilsch
      email: apilsch@tamu.edu
      office:
        - hours: TR 11:00-12:00
          location: LAAH 417
  start: 2025-01-13
  end: 2025-04-28
  holidays:
    - date: 2025-01-20
      name: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
    - date: 2025-03-10
      name: Spring Break
    - date: 2025-03-11
      name: Spring Break
    - date: 2025-03-12
      name: Spring Break
    - date: 2025-03-13
      name: Spring Break
    - date: 2025-03-14
      name: Spring Break
    - date: 2025-04-18
      name: Reading Day
    - date: 2025-04-30
      name: Reading Day
  meets:
    - tuesday
    - thursday
  classes:
    - |
      * Syllabus Introduction
      * [Robert Browning, "My Last Duchess"](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/43768/my-last-duchess) (1842)
    - |
      * What is Interpretation?
      * Vladimir Nabakov, "Signs and Symbols" (1958)
    - |
      * Kenneth Burke's Four Tropes
    - |
      * [Ethan Canin, "Pitch Memory"](https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/40349270.pdf) (1984)
    - |
      * [Donald Barthelme, "The Balloon"](https://images.shulcloud.com/1202/uploads/Documents/The-Balloon-Donald-Barthelme.pdf) (1966)
    - |
      * [Flannery O'Connor, "Good Country People"](https://jerrywbrown.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/Good-Country-People-OConnor-Flannery.pdf) (1955)
    - |
      * [Jonathan Swift, "A Modest Proposal"](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/1080/1080-h/1080-h.htm) (1729)
      * **Online Informational Session on 2/5 at 5:30pm**
    - |
      * [James Phelan, "Reliable, Unreliable, and Deficient Narration: A Rhetorical Account"](https://www-jstor-org.srv-proxy1.library.tamu.edu/stable/pdf/10.13110/narrcult.4.1.0089.pdf) (2017)
    - |
      * [Peter J. Rabinowitz, "Truth in Fiction: A Reexamination of Audiences"](https://www-journals-uchicago-edu.srv-proxy1.library.tamu.edu/doi/epdf/10.1086/447927) (1977)
    - |
      * [Edgar Allan Poe, "The Tell-tale Heart"](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/2148/2148-h/2148-h.htm#chap2.20) (1843)
    - |
      * [Ryunosuke Akutagawa, "In a Grove"](http://johnsnow.matrix.msu.edu/broadstpump/wp-content/uploads/InAGrove.pdf) (1922)
    - |
      * Nikolai Gogol, "The Diary of a Mad Man" (1835)
      * [Lu Xun, "The Diary of a Mad Man"](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lu-xun/1918/04/x01.htm) (1918)
    - |
      * Truman Capote, "My Side of the Matter" (1949)
    - |
      * In-class Writing Day<br>Come prepared to write for all of class
    - |
      * [Donald Barthelme, "Game"](http://www.latexnet.org/~burnt/Game.html) (1965)
      * **Online Informational Session on 3/5 at 5:30pm**
    - |
      * In-class Writing Day<br>Come prepared to write for all of class
    - |
      * [Henry James, *The Turn of the Screw*](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/209) (1898)
    - |
      * [Henry James, *The Turn of the Screw*](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/209) (1898)
      * Writing Time
    - |
      * [Joyce Carol Oates, "The Accursed Inhabitants of the House of Bly"](https://www.jstor.org/stable/4612679) (1993)
    - |
      * [Stephen King, "Strawberry Spring"](https://xpressenglish.com/our-stories/strawberry-spring/) (1968)
      * Writing Time
    - |
      * [Charlotte Perkins Gilman, "The Yellow Wallpaper"](https://www.owleyes.org/text/yellow-wallpaper/read/yellow-wallpaper) (1892)
      * **Online Informational Session on 4/2 at 5:30pm**
    - |
      * Harry Mark Petrakis, "The Journal of a Wife Beater" (1987)
      * Writing Time
    - |
      * Gillian Flynn, *Gone Girl* (2012)
    - |
      * Gillian Flynn, *Gone Girl* (2012)
      * Writing Time
      * **Short Writing Portfolio** due by 11:59pm
    - |
      * Gillian Flynn, *Gone Girl* (2012)
    - |
      * Gillian Flynn, *Gone Girl* (2012)
      * Writing Time
    - |
      * Gillian Flynn, *Gone Girl* (2012)
    - |
      * Gillian Flynn, *Gone Girl* (2012)
      * Writing Time
      * **Longer Paper** due by 11:59pm
    - |
      * **Reassigned Day; Go to your Friday Class**
---

# Course Materials

The following novel is required for course:

* Gillian Flynn, *Gone Girl*

Additionally, there are several readings shared as PDF on our course Google Drive.

# Assignments

| Assignment Name                                     | Percentage | Due Date   |
|-----------------------------------------------------|------------|------------|
| [Participation](#participation)                     | 10%        | Throughout |
| [Commonplace Book](#commonplace-book)               | 35%        | Throughout |
| [Short Writing](#short-writing)                     | 20%        | Throughout |
| [Short Writing Portfolio](#short-writing-portfolio) | 20%        | Week 13    |
| [Longer Paper](#longer-paper)                       | 25%        | Week 16    |

## Participation

Participation refers to how much you engage with class. Showing up is obviously the first step, but participation also covers speaking in class, working with your group in group work, and turning in in-class work (freewrites, think-pair-share questions, etc.). This course is designed to be participatory rather than discussion-driven, so I want to make sure that you are rewarded for engaging with the course in the proper manner.

## Commonplace Book

A [commonplace book](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commonplace_book) is a traditional method for organizing the material of ones experience for recall and note-taking purposes. The Roman emperor and noted Stoic philosopher, Marcus Aurelius, kept a commonplace book, now available as *Meditations*, for instance. In his commonplace book, he recorded any insights that occurred to him throughout his day as a means of documenting his philosophical development.

For writers and critics, commonplace books are particularly useful for keeping track of the things that strike us as we read or as we think about our writing. The practice has been used for centuries by people seeking to keep track of their reading. In fact, [recent work in Early Modern literature](https://udpress.udel.edu/book-title/dramatic-extracts-in-seventeenth-century-english-manuscripts/) uses commonplace books to reconstruct different versions of famous plays based on what people wrote down while watching performances.

In our class, as a means of documenting and experimenting with the emergence of your own critical sensibilities, you will be keeping a commonplace book. For each assigned reading, you will record 2-3 quotes that strike you as being particularly memorable or important. Along with those quotations, you will need to write a bit (a paragraph or two) about why you are choosing the particular selection. These entries need to serve to remind future-you why present-you thinks this quote matters: it can be because of style, content, or something else entirely. It's up to you, but it is about what is important.

### Format

You may keep your commonplace book by hand or digitally. You may keep a digital commonplace book in our course Google Drive (see link on Canvas) or on your own computer/ Google Drive. I will need access to your commonplace book three times (noted on the syllabus), so however you choose to keep it, please make sure I have access.

In our course Google Drive, there is a file labeled "Commonplace Book Entry Template" which contains the prompts for the two parts of each entry. Copy the prompt into your own file for each entry and fill out the two sections.

## Close Readings

Over the course of the semester, you are required to complete four (4) close reading projects linked to the course readings. You may complete a close reading of any paragraph or stanza (for poetry) of any piece of writing.

By the date indicated on the syllabus (usually week 12), you will need to have completed at least four of these.

These short papers should be roughly two double-spaced pages in length.

### Turn-in Procedure

Either post your paper to Google Drive or write in Google Docs. When you are finished, share the paper with me. This signals me that you have turned it in. I will go through and make suggests for revision and give any other feedback I have. Bear this feedback in mind for the [Short Writing Portfolio](#short-writing-portfolio).

### Extra Work

While you need to have four close readings, you can produce more if you would like the practice or if you are not happy with the results for one of them. I'll be happy to provide feedback on as many short papers 

## Short Writing Portfolio

By Week 13, you will need to have completed the following:

1.  Revised, finalized versions of your four short papers.
2.  Selecting and revising your best six commonplace book entries to date.
3.  A cover letter detailing what you have learned so far in the course and a justification for the selection of and revisions to the above materials.
4.  A proposal for your longer paper topic.

## Longer Paper

To conclude class, we will work on a six-page, analytical paper over one (or with good cause, two) of the course readings. These will be supported by research in addition to close readings and can be built upon the work done in the short writing assignments.

# Schedule

**How to read this syllabus:** All readings that are not links are uploaded as PDFs on our shared Google Drive.

**Note on links:** Please contact me via email if a link is not working.

{% include schedule.html %}

## University Policies

### Attendance Policy

The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student responsibility. Students are expected to attend class and to complete all assignments.

Please refer to [Student Rule 7](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/) in its entirety for information about excused absences, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.

### Makeup Work Policy

Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or when attendance contributes to a student's grade, for the reasons stated in Student Rule 7, or other reason deemed appropriate by the instructor.

Please refer to [Student Rule 7](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07/) in its entirety for information about makeup work, including definitions, and related documentation and timelines.

Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a period of more than 30 days for make-up work, and the timeframe for make-up work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor" ([Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.1](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07)).

"The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to make up work missed because of an unexcused absence" ([Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.2](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule07)).

Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. (See [Student Rule 24](https://student-rules.tamu.edu/rule24/).)

### Academic Integrity Statement and Policy

"An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do."

"Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able to produce proof that the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep appropriate records at all times. The inability to authenticate one's work, should the instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct case" ([Section 20.1.2.3, Student Rule 20](https://aggiehonor.tamu.edu/Rules-and-Procedures/Rules/Honor-System-Rules)).

#### Texas A&M at College Station

*You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures, academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities at [aggiehonor.tamu.edu](https://aggiehonor.tamu.edu/).*

### Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Policy

Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers to your education due to a disability or think you may have a disability, please contact the Disability Resources office on your campus (resources listed below) Disabilities may include, but are not limited to attentional, learning, mental health, sensory, physical, or chronic health conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability related needs with Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.

#### Texas A&M at College Station

*Disability Resources is located in the Student Services Building or at (979) 845-1637 or visit [disability.tamu.edu](https://disability.tamu.edu/).*

### Title IX and Statement on Limits to Confidentiality

Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe and productive for all. University policies and federal and state laws prohibit gender-based discrimination and sexual harassment, including sexual assault, sexual exploitation, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking.

With the exception of some medical and mental health providers, all university employees (including full and part-time faculty, staff, paid graduate assistants, student workers, etc.) are Mandatory Reporters and must report to the Title IX Office if the employee experiences, observes, or becomes aware of an incident that meets the following conditions (see [University Rule 08.01.01.M1](https://rules-saps.tamu.edu/PDFs/08.01.01.M1.pdf)):

-   The incident is reasonably believed to be discrimination or harassment.

-   The incident is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who, at the time of the incident, was (1) a student enrolled at the University or (2) an employee of the University.

Mandatory Reporters must file a report regardless of how the information comes to their attention -- including but not limited to face-to-face conversations, a written class assignment or paper, class discussion, email, text, or social media post. Although Mandatory Reporters must file a report, in most instances, a person who is subjected to the alleged conduct will be able to control how the report is handled, including whether or not to pursue a formal investigation. The University's goal is to make sure you are aware of the range of options available to you and to ensure access to the resources you need.

#### Texas A&M at College Station

Students wishing to discuss concerns related to mental and/or physical health in a confidential setting are encouraged to make an appointment with [University Health Services](https://uhs.tamu.edu/appointments) or download the [TELUS Health Student Support app](https://uhs.tamu.edu/mental-health/student-support.html) for 24/7 access to professional counseling in multiple languages. Walk-in services for urgent, non-emergency needs are available during normal business hours at University Health Services locations; call 979.458.4584 for details.

*Students can learn more about filing a report, accessing supportive resources, and navigating the Title IX investigation and resolution process on the University's [Title IX webpage](https://titleix.tamu.edu/).*

### Statement on Mental Health and Wellness

Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors influencing a student's academic success and overall wellbeing. Students are encouraged to engage in healthy self-care practices by utilizing the resources and services available through [University Health Services](https://uhs.tamu.edu/). Students needing a listening ear can call the Texas A&M Helpline (979.845.2700) from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. weekdays and 24 hours on weekends for mental health peer support while classes are in session. The [TELUS Health Student Support app](https://uhs.tamu.edu/mental-health/student-support.html) provides access to professional counseling in multiple languages anytime, anywhere by phone or chat, and the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline offers 24-hour emergency support at 988 or [988lifeline.org](http://988lifeline.org/).

#### Texas A&M at College Station

Students needing a listening ear can contact University Health Services (979.458.4584) or call the Texas A&M Helpline (979.845.2700) from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. weekdays and 24 hours on weekends while classes are in session. 24-hour emergency help is also available through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988) or at [988lifeline.org](http://988lifeline.org/).

### Statement on the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)

FERPA is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of educational records by limiting access to these records, to establish the right of students to inspect and review their educational records and to provide guidelines for the correction of inaccurate and misleading data through informal and formal hearings. Currently enrolled students wishing to withhold any or all directory information items may do so by going to [howdy.tamu.edu](https://howdy.tamu.edu/) and clicking on the "Directory Hold Information" link in the Student Records channel on the MyRecord tab. The complete [FERPA Notice to Students](http://registrar.tamu.edu/Catalogs%2C-Policies-Procedures/FERPA/FERPA-Notice-to-Students#0-StatementofRights) and the student records policy is available on the Office of the Registrar webpage.

Items that can never be identified as public information are a student's social security number, citizenship, gender, grades, GPR or class schedule. All efforts will be made in this class to protect your privacy and to ensure confidential treatment of information associated with or generated by your participation in the class.

Directory items include name, UIN, local address, permanent address, email address, local telephone number, permanent telephone number, dates of attendance, program of study (college, major, campus), classification, previous institutions attended, degrees honors and awards received, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, medical residence location and medical residence specialization.

## Department Policies

### Generative AI Usage Statement

We in the Department of English believe that writing is central to the production of knowledge. The written word is how ideas circulate but, more importantly, the act of crafting words, sentences, paragraphs, and essays refines thoughts into ideas that matter. As such, we strongly stand against the usage of generative artificial intelligence—applications such as ChatGPT or Grammarly—as a replacement for the act of writing that has been the bedrock of human knowledge for thousands of years. Given the concerns delineated below and the importance I place on writing as your thought process, the use of GenAI in this class will be treated as plagiarism. As such, any usage of GenAI will be subject to the university's academic integrity policy, which may include, but is not limited to, failing the assignment and/or disciplinary action.

### University Writing Center Statement

The University Writing Center (UWC) has trained peer consultants available to work with you on any kind of writing or speaking project, including research papers, lab reports, application essays, or creative writing, and at any stage of your process, whether you're deciding on a topic or reviewing your final draft. You can also get help with public speaking, presentations, and group projects. We can work with you in person at our Evans or BLCC locations or via Zoom or email. To schedule an appointment or to view our handouts, videos, or interactive learning modules, visit [writingcenter.tamu.edu](https://writingcenter.tamu.edu). If you have questions, need help making an appointment, or encounter difficulty accessing our services, call 979-458-1455 or email [uwc@tamu.edu](mailto:uwc@tamu.edu).
